But so moving on from the last video, let's now use a list of pen, more code to our main method.
We'll accept some of these imports.
So I'm demonstrating here, sorting a list, passing static method invocations comparative to reverse
order in comparative natural order to the Lescott sort method, which sorts by the natural order string
and the reverse natural order.
So let's try running that.
You can see the tools they're using to reverse order, incorporated natural order.
And next, more I want to do is use the custom comparator that I've created, then, of course.
Was the last time copyrighter up here that we had created in the previous video.
Some person back into our main method.
But in this kind of test, creating an instance of the custom comparator on 74, I'm demonstrating using
the custom comparator as an argument to sort of list using this sort, also demonstrating using the
custom comparator as an argument to sort an array using a raised sort.
So let's run this.
And there's the output, as you can see, the comparator was successful and names are sorted by the
last name now, regardless of how the name was supplied, obviously looking at the code.
The birth name is not sought and erased or sought.
And the cold alone, Ed, is an example of that sort, passing the comparator is the second argument.
But let's continue on with this a little bit.
Nadella is posting some more code in our main method, this code demonstrating how to use the reversed
default method supplied to you by the comparator interface.
Let's have a go at that and run the code.
I'm looking at a car there for reversed city airport on screen.
So what happens when we add a no to our test data we've got during that, that's from the code.
They can add a note to the string of itself, but sorting it or using this start of with an array with
no will cause no problem exceptions, I won't show that here.
But obviously in the case here and I'm using array lists, the card works.
You can say null has been sorted.
And by the way, I discussed a that linked one zero eight one nine part one course, specifically Section
five, working with arrays.
If you need a recap, suffice to say here that a write out sort does not throw no pointer exception.
And we did say that now was sort of the front of the list.
The comparator interface applies with two static methods that allow you to place your nose either at
the beginning or into the list.
And we looked at those in the slides in the previous video.
Let's have a look at testing those out some more to our main method here.
So I kind of posted in there to that combining the comparative static method was first, but the default
method reversed to reverse the names, but put the novelty first.
And the second example combines the comparative static method in those last and passing it to the custom
comparator last name comparator.
Let's run this and check the results.
And you can see that now at the top for the first one is incorporated that knows first and the now is
showing at the bottom, the second example is incorporated.
Those last.
Finally, the comparative interface provides static methods to let you sort an object without implementing
either a comparator or comparable interface method by building a comparator for you.
So let's check that out in code.
So need a class for this.
Because when comparing example.
This code consists of a person class, which consists of a first timer, the last time attribute Borsuk,
I get a method for both.
Both I got a constructor that takes arguments, that sets these attributes.
We've also got a two string method, so note here that the class itself doesn't implement either comparable
or comparator and scrolling on down, looking at our main method for comparing example, class with
creating an unsorted list of several persons and then calling the sort method passing it changed static
methods on.
So they're comparing method returns a comparative based on the guitar method.
Get last name, change it to the then comparing method which returns a comparator based on the method
get first name.
This results in a list of persons being sorted by last name, then first name.
So to confirm that it's from the code.
And you can see the airport on screen, so in this video, in the previous one, I've reviewed the comparable
and copyrighter interfaces and demonstrated examples of both in samples of code.
I want you to review and try to remember this chart of differences for the exam.
Remember, you can download the slides if you need to check out the last video in the course.
So looking at the feature, any class implementing the interface becomes sortable in collections at
assorted.
That's true for a comparable infosphere comparator.
The comparison method uses the instance as one of the objects in the comparison is truthful, comparable
and false.
For comparative to method name is compare to the comparable and compare for comparator the package javadoc
length for comparable Thanjavur.
Thank you to the comparative.
The number of parameters, one for comparable and two for comparative, has different methods of job
rate is false for comparable but true for comparator static methods.
As such, a survival is false for a comparable but true for comparator and generally used to order objects
in an additional way.
The natural ordering falls for comparable but true for comparator.
All right.
So we'll finish the video here.
In the next one, I'll be demonstrating additional convenience methods for working with collections.
These are defined in the Javadoc YouTube collections class.
See you in the next video.